README.md, before:

# Proxyshop Plugins by FelixVita

## The Ancient Template

This is what you're probably here for.

_Ancient_ is a custom plugin for [Proxyshop](https://github.com/MrTeferi/MTG-Proxyshop.git) which lets you create cards with the [old-school/classic frame](https://scryfall.com/search?q=%28frame%3A1993+or+frame%3A1997%29).

This template / plugin is my main project, and is by far the largest plugin in terms of complexity and number of lines of code.

### Examples of cards rendered using Ancient

_Content placeholder: Coming soon..._

...

...

...

## Other plugins: Modern & Normal Plus

Although developing _Ancient_ has been my primary focus, I have additionally made a few spin-offs of the default "Normal" template

### Modern

The _Modern_ template / plugin lets you create cards with the [modern frame](https://scryfall.com/search?q=frame%3Amodern+-is%3Adigital).
It is basically the same as `normal.psd` except for the following modifications:

- Bottom part of the card frame is added back in
- Square frame instead of rounded corners
- Added Artist & Collector Info in the modern frame style (paintbrush icon, mock copyright, etc.)
- Added masks to the nyxtouched cards to make the starry frame effect only go about halfway down the card
- Added [miracles](https://scryfall.com/search?q=frame%3Amiracle) frame effect
- Adds functionality to use SVGs (e.g. from CCGHQ) in place of the set symbols normally generated by Proxyshop.

### Normal Plus

The _Normal Plus_ plugin just adds some extra features to the default "Normal" template to bring its appearance even closer how the [M15 frame](https://scryfall.com/search?q=frame%3Am15+-is%3Adigital) really looks, by adding the following features:

- Adds an optional "BS & Copyleft" copyright line to the bottom right of the card, for a slightly more authentic look at a glance.
- Fixes the collector's info for cards like [[Mind Stone (AFC)]] by hiding card count whenever collector number is greater than card count.)
- Adds functionality to use SVGs (e.g. from CCGHQ) in place of the set symbols normally generated by Proxyshop.

Note that the _Normal Plus_ plugin has no accompanying custom photoshop template. It simply uses your existing `normal.psd` file. That said, if you wish to use the feature `enable_text_copyleft_proxy_not_for_sale` to place a "mock copyright" in the bottom right corner, then make sure you remember to download `bscopyleft.psb` (as explained in the instructions below).

#### Normal Plus Class: Miracle

The _Miracle Plus_ plugin does the exact same thing for the existing _Miracle_ template as _Normal Plus_ does for the _Normal_ template.

#### Normal Plus Class: Invention

The _Invention Bronze Plus_ plugin does the exact same thing for the existing _Invention Bronze_ template as _Normal Plus_ does for the _Normal_ template.
Additionally, it adds the orange gradient in the rules text box — a visual element which (as of 2022-Oct-14) is still missing from the current masterpiece.psd template.

## Instructions

### Prerequisites

Before you begin, make sure you are using the right version of Proxyshop. The FelixVita-Proxyshop-Plugins are compatible with [Proxyshop v1.1.8](https://github.com/MrTeferi/MTG-Proxyshop/releases/tag/v1.1.8)

### Installing the FelixVita plugin package

1. Go to the latest release of the plugin [here](https://github.com/HelixVita/FelixVita-Proxyshop-Plugins/releases/latest) and download it by clicking `Source code (zip)` (under "Assets").

    ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/102387379/191358011-81f4138c-8ed8-45ae-a532-17d5931a6524.png)

1. Unzip the folder and place it into your Proxyshop `plugins` folder, so that it looks something like this:

    ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/102387379/191348877-72feeadd-28c0-4002-b48d-1a83ddcab31e.png)

1. Rename it to get rid of the version number at the end, like so:

    ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/102387379/191352722-b02ab966-e3b4-4a0f-86cb-b4ac2661af1f.png)

1. Create a new folder named `FelixVita` inside the Proxyshop `templates` folder, then download [these](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1EqmL85czp44qWXaSpmN-DSJk430ocMkN?usp=sharing) files and place them there, like so:

    ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/102387379/193914068-3e5020e9-c823-4f09-868d-c7a2c5a06c73.png)

1. Create another new folder in `templates` named `CCGHQ`, then download the CCGHQ Set Symbol SVG files from [here](https://www.dropbox.com/sh/66vu99o8e4yo2vy/AAAijXj6WEoPbcn2Mxeafjzqa) and place them inside, so that the path looks like this:

    ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/102387379/191598378-3e36f318-6345-49e6-9be0-d210b594c387.png)

1. Run Proxyshop. You should now see "Ancient", "Modern", and "Normal Plus" (and its class variants) in the list of available templates. Enjoy!

    ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/102387379/191357752-ebe486c1-59d9-480f-bb55-639ba64a7753.png)

## A Note Regarding the CCGHQ Set Symbol SVGs

When enabled, Proxyshop will attempt to use CCGHQ set symbol SVGs instead of generating set symbols using the info from `symbols.json`, except when:

- I've deemed that the Proxyshop one looks more authentic; or
- An error was encountered when attempting to load the CCGHQ SVG

Please also note that I have not yet checked every set symbol to ensure that it looks authentic. (I have thus far only done that for the sets from Alpha to Scourge, i.e. the old-school/classic frame cards relevant to the _Ancient_ template).

## Optional user configuration

You have the option to toggle certain behaviors on and off by modifying the `config.json` file, located here:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/102387379/195993272-00d341c7-61c4-4a1e-a59a-a43be9f66905.png)

Simply open the file in Notepad and change the value of the config option you wish to modify.

Aside from the the option `custom_collector_string` (which is explained in more detail below), each config option has exactly three possible values: `true`, `false`, or `"auto"`

### Explanation of what each configuration option means

Here is a table summarizing what each config option does.

| config option                      | description                                                                                                                                                          | default | behavior of the "auto" option                                                                                                                                                                                           | known issues                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| ---------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| art_position_memory_enabled        | automatically re-position the art using the position values from a csv file (created by using the option below); the filename of the art file must be a 100% match   | false   | auto = true                                                                                                                                                                                                         | none                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| art_position_memorize_new          | pauses the proxyshop rendering process to let you manually adjust the art position in photoshop; when you click "Continue" this position will be saved in a CSV file | auto    | auto = true if no position is saved yet, else false                                                                                                                                                                 | none                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| smart_tombstone                    | enable tombstone for all cards with graveyard abilities (regardless of whether the printed card actually had a tombstone); if 'false', then only cards originally printed with a tombstone will get a tombstone                       | auto    | auto = true                                                                                                                                                                                                         | none                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| flavor_divider                     | enable flavor text separator bar for cards that have both rules text and flavor text                                                                                 | auto    | flavor-divider will be used only on cards printed in dominaria or later and only if they are rendered with normal.psd (except for portal set cards, which also get flavor-dividers if rendered with ancient.psd)    | [portal-style divider spacing issue](https://github.com/MrTeferi/MTG-Proxyshop/issues/25)                                                                                                             |
| use_legendary_crown                | apply the legendary crown frame effect (introduced in Dominaria set for legendary cards); if 'true' then all cards will get a crown regardless of whether the card is legendary; if 'false' then no cards will get a crown                                                                                                           | auto    | crown will only be applied to legendary cards from dominaria set or later                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | [absolutely horrid workaround required as this is not natively supported](https://github.com/MrTeferi/MTG-Proxyshop/issues/18)                                                                                                                            |
| use_set_symbol                     | set this to 'false' to completely disable the set symbol                                                                                                             | auto    | all cards from non-expansion early core sets (like Alpha, Beta, 4th Edition) will not be rendered with a set symbol                                                                                                 | none                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| use_ccghq_set_symbols              | attempt to use ccghq set symbol SVGs instead of the default proxyshop-generated set symbol                                                                           | auto    | CCGHQ SVGs will not be used as set symbols for certain sets where I've made the subjective decision that the CCGHQ ones look inferior to the Proxyshop-generated ones                                               | none                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| use_ccghq_set_symbol_rarity_color  | enable set symbol rarity color (silver=uncommon, gold=rare, orange=mythic rare)                                                                                      | auto    | cards from any pre-Exodus sets will be rendered with the "common" rarity color                                                                                                                                      | none                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| use_ccghq_timeshifted_rarity_color | enable the timeshifted (purple) rarity set symbol color                                                                                                              | auto    | all post-Scourge cards rendered with the _Ancient_ template will have the timeshifted (purple) rarity set symbol color (to indicate that they have been "timeshifted" from a Modern/M15 frame to the classic frame) | none                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| thicker_collector_info             | slightly increase thickness of the collector's info / copyright line (for readability)                                                                               | false   | auto = false                                                                                                                                                                                                        | incompatible with "enable_mock_copyright"                                                                                                                                                               |
| enable_mock_copyright              | adds a "BS & Copyleft" text, for a slightly more authentic look at a glance                                                                                          | true    | auto = true                                                                                                                                                                                                         | none                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| use_1993_frame (ancient template)                    | use the 1993 version of the classic frame instead of the default 1997 version                                                                                        | auto    | cards from any pre-Mirage sets will be rendered using the 1993 frame assets                                                                                                                                           | [inter-1993 nuances are missing](https://github.com/HelixVita/FelixVita-Proxyshop-Plugins/issues/8); [missing land and gold frame](https://github.com/HelixVita/FelixVita-Proxyshop-Plugins/issues/9) |

#### The `custom_collector_string` option

The `custom_collector_string` option applies collector's info to the set layer, in a user-defined format, using a mix of variables and free text. The variables are

```text
<PrintYear>
<Set>
<CollectorNumber>
<CardCount>
<Rarity>
```

For example, if you're rendering `Skullclamp [DST]` and you've modified `custom_collector_string` to say

```text
<PrintYear> Joe Proxy * Not for Sanctioned Play * <Set> <CollectorNumber>/<CardCount> <Rarity>
```

Then this will produce something like:

> 2004 Joe Proxy • Not for Sanctioned Play • DST 140/165 U

and if any collector info is missing, it will simply be omitted.

Commit message:

Change a few default user config options
- Changed default behavior to disable "mock copyright" as per WarpDandy's recommendation
- Change default option of "art_position_memory_enabled" to "false" as originally intended for the previous release
- Changed default option of "smart_tombstone" to "auto" as originally intended for the previous release

README.md, after:

# Proxyshop Plugins by FelixVita

## The Ancient Template

This is what you're probably here for.

_Ancient_ is a custom plugin for [Proxyshop](https://github.com/MrTeferi/MTG-Proxyshop.git) which lets you create cards with the [old-school/classic frame](https://scryfall.com/search?q=%28frame%3A1993+or+frame%3A1997%29).

This template / plugin is my main project, and is by far the largest plugin in terms of complexity and number of lines of code.

### Examples of cards rendered using Ancient

_Content placeholder: Coming soon..._

...

...

...

## Other plugins: Modern & Normal Plus

Although developing _Ancient_ has been my primary focus, I have additionally made a few spin-offs of the default "Normal" template

### Modern

The _Modern_ template / plugin lets you create cards with the [modern frame](https://scryfall.com/search?q=frame%3Amodern+-is%3Adigital).
It is basically the same as `normal.psd` except for the following modifications:

- Bottom part of the card frame is added back in
- Square frame instead of rounded corners
- Added Artist & Collector Info in the modern frame style (paintbrush icon, mock copyright, etc.)
- Added masks to the nyxtouched cards to make the starry frame effect only go about halfway down the card
- Added [miracles](https://scryfall.com/search?q=frame%3Amiracle) frame effect
- Adds functionality to use SVGs (e.g. from CCGHQ) in place of the set symbols normally generated by Proxyshop.

### Normal Plus

The _Normal Plus_ plugin just adds some extra features to the default "Normal" template to bring its appearance even closer how the [M15 frame](https://scryfall.com/search?q=frame%3Am15+-is%3Adigital) really looks, by adding the following features:

- Adds an optional "BS & Copyleft" copyright line to the bottom right of the card, for a slightly more authentic look at a glance.
- Fixes the collector's info for cards like [[Mind Stone (AFC)]] by hiding card count whenever collector number is greater than card count.)
- Adds functionality to use SVGs (e.g. from CCGHQ) in place of the set symbols normally generated by Proxyshop.

Note that the _Normal Plus_ plugin has no accompanying custom photoshop template. It simply uses your existing `normal.psd` file. That said, if you wish to use the feature `enable_text_copyleft_proxy_not_for_sale` to place a "mock copyright" in the bottom right corner, then make sure you remember to download `bscopyleft.psb` (as explained in the instructions below).

#### Normal Plus Class: Miracle

The _Miracle Plus_ plugin does the exact same thing for the existing _Miracle_ template as _Normal Plus_ does for the _Normal_ template.

#### Normal Plus Class: Invention

The _Invention Bronze Plus_ plugin does the exact same thing for the existing _Invention Bronze_ template as _Normal Plus_ does for the _Normal_ template.
Additionally, it adds the orange gradient in the rules text box — a visual element which (as of 2022-Oct-14) is still missing from the current masterpiece.psd template.

## Instructions

### Prerequisites

Before you begin, make sure you are using the right version of Proxyshop. The FelixVita-Proxyshop-Plugins are compatible with [Proxyshop v1.1.8](https://github.com/MrTeferi/MTG-Proxyshop/releases/tag/v1.1.8)

### Installing the FelixVita plugin package

1. Go to the latest release of the plugin [here](https://github.com/HelixVita/FelixVita-Proxyshop-Plugins/releases/latest) and download it by clicking `Source code (zip)` (under "Assets").

    ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/102387379/191358011-81f4138c-8ed8-45ae-a532-17d5931a6524.png)

1. Unzip the folder and place it into your Proxyshop `plugins` folder, so that it looks something like this:

    ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/102387379/191348877-72feeadd-28c0-4002-b48d-1a83ddcab31e.png)

1. Rename it to get rid of the version number at the end, like so:

    ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/102387379/191352722-b02ab966-e3b4-4a0f-86cb-b4ac2661af1f.png)

1. Create a new folder named `FelixVita` inside the Proxyshop `templates` folder, then download [these](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1EqmL85czp44qWXaSpmN-DSJk430ocMkN?usp=sharing) files and place them there, like so:

    ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/102387379/193914068-3e5020e9-c823-4f09-868d-c7a2c5a06c73.png)

1. Create another new folder in `templates` named `CCGHQ`, then download the CCGHQ Set Symbol SVG files from [here](https://www.dropbox.com/sh/66vu99o8e4yo2vy/AAAijXj6WEoPbcn2Mxeafjzqa) and place them inside, so that the path looks like this:

    ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/102387379/191598378-3e36f318-6345-49e6-9be0-d210b594c387.png)

1. Run Proxyshop. You should now see "Ancient", "Modern", and "Normal Plus" (and its class variants) in the list of available templates. Enjoy!

    ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/102387379/191357752-ebe486c1-59d9-480f-bb55-639ba64a7753.png)

## A Note Regarding the CCGHQ Set Symbol SVGs

When enabled, Proxyshop will attempt to use CCGHQ set symbol SVGs instead of generating set symbols using the info from `symbols.json`, except when:

- I've deemed that the Proxyshop one looks more authentic; or
- An error was encountered when attempting to load the CCGHQ SVG

Please also note that I have not yet checked every set symbol to ensure that it looks authentic. (I have thus far only done that for the sets from Alpha to Scourge, i.e. the old-school/classic frame cards relevant to the _Ancient_ template).

## Optional user configuration

You have the option to toggle certain behaviors on and off by modifying the `config.json` file, located here:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/102387379/195993272-00d341c7-61c4-4a1e-a59a-a43be9f66905.png)

Simply open the file in Notepad and change the value of the config option you wish to modify.

Aside from the the option `custom_collector_string` (which is explained in more detail below), each config option has exactly three possible values: `true`, `false`, or `"auto"`

### Explanation of what each configuration option means

Here is a table summarizing what each config option does.

| config option                      | description                                                                                                                                                          | default | behavior of the "auto" option                                                                                                                                                                                           | known issues                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| ---------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| art_position_memory_enabled        | automatically re-position the art using the position values from a csv file (created by using the option below); the filename of the art file must be a 100% match   | false   | auto = true                                                                                                                                                                                                         | none                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| art_position_memorize_new          | pauses the proxyshop rendering process to let you manually adjust the art position in photoshop; when you click "Continue" this position will be saved in a CSV file | auto    | auto = true if no position is saved yet, else false                                                                                                                                                                 | none                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| smart_tombstone                    | enable tombstone for all cards with graveyard abilities (regardless of whether the printed card actually had a tombstone); if 'false', then only cards originally printed with a tombstone will get a tombstone                       | auto    | auto = true                                                                                                                                                                                                         | none                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| flavor_divider                     | enable flavor text separator bar for cards that have both rules text and flavor text                                                                                 | auto    | flavor-divider will be used only on cards printed in dominaria or later and only if they are rendered with normal.psd (except for portal set cards, which also get flavor-dividers if rendered with ancient.psd)    | [portal-style divider spacing issue](https://github.com/MrTeferi/MTG-Proxyshop/issues/25)                                                                                                             |
| use_legendary_crown                | apply the legendary crown frame effect (introduced in Dominaria set for legendary cards); if 'true' then all cards will get a crown regardless of whether the card is legendary; if 'false' then no cards will get a crown                                                                                                           | auto    | crown will only be applied to legendary cards from dominaria set or later                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | [absolutely horrid workaround required as this is not natively supported](https://github.com/MrTeferi/MTG-Proxyshop/issues/18)                                                                                                                            |
| use_set_symbol                     | set this to 'false' to completely disable the set symbol                                                                                                             | auto    | all cards from non-expansion early core sets (like Alpha, Beta, 4th Edition) will not be rendered with a set symbol                                                                                                 | none                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| use_ccghq_set_symbols              | attempt to use ccghq set symbol SVGs instead of the default proxyshop-generated set symbol                                                                           | auto    | CCGHQ SVGs will not be used as set symbols for certain sets where I've made the subjective decision that the CCGHQ ones look inferior to the Proxyshop-generated ones                                               | none                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| use_ccghq_set_symbol_rarity_color  | enable set symbol rarity color (silver=uncommon, gold=rare, orange=mythic rare)                                                                                      | auto    | cards from any pre-Exodus sets will be rendered with the "common" rarity color                                                                                                                                      | none                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| use_ccghq_timeshifted_rarity_color | enable the timeshifted (purple) rarity set symbol color                                                                                                              | auto    | all post-Scourge cards rendered with the _Ancient_ template will have the timeshifted (purple) rarity set symbol color (to indicate that they have been "timeshifted" from a Modern/M15 frame to the classic frame) | none                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| thicker_collector_info             | slightly increase thickness of the collector's info / copyright line (for readability)                                                                               | false   | auto = false                                                                                                                                                                                                        | incompatible with "enable_mock_copyright"                                                                                                                                                               |
| enable_mock_copyright              | adds a "BS & Copyleft" text, for a more authentic look at a glance; please don't create renders for mpcfill with this setting, as it looks "too real"                                                                                          | false    | auto = false                                                                                                                                                                                                         | none                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| use_1993_frame (ancient template)                    | use the 1993 version of the classic frame instead of the default 1997 version                                                                                        | auto    | cards from any pre-Mirage sets will be rendered using the 1993 frame assets                                                                                                                                           | [missing land and gold frame](https://github.com/HelixVita/FelixVita-Proxyshop-Plugins/issues/9); and [inter-1993 nuances are missing](https://github.com/HelixVita/FelixVita-Proxyshop-Plugins/issues/8) |

#### The `custom_collector_string` option

The `custom_collector_string` option applies collector's info to the set layer, in a user-defined format, using a mix of variables and free text. The variables are

```text
<PrintYear>
<Set>
<CollectorNumber>
<CardCount>
<Rarity>
```

For example, if you're rendering `Skullclamp [DST]` and you've modified `custom_collector_string` to say

```text
<PrintYear> Joe Proxy * Not for Sanctioned Play * <Set> <CollectorNumber>/<CardCount> <Rarity>
```

Then this will produce something like:

> 2004 Joe Proxy • Not for Sanctioned Play • DST 140/165 U

and if any collector info is missing, it will simply be omitted.
